In this video, we'll talk
about the functions that
we can use with characters.
This cctype library includes very
simple and very useful functions
that allow the testing of characters
for various properties as well as
the conversion of characters from
upper to lower or lower to uppercase.
In order to use these functions,
you must include cctype.
The functions all expect
a single character.
In the case of the testing functions,
they evaluate to true or false.
And the conversion functions
return the converted character.
Let's see some of these functions.
This table contains some of
the functions in cctype that
allow for testing of characters.
You call the function and
pass into character you wish
to test in the parentheses.
The function that evaluates
to true or false depending on
whether the character has the
property your testing or not.
Isalpha test to see if a character
is a letter, either uppercase or
lowercase and evaluates to true
if it is or false otherwise.
Isalnum test to see if the
character is a letter or digit.
Isdigit test to see if
the character is a digit.
Islower test to see if the
character is a lowercase letter.
Isprint test to see if the
character is a printable character.
Ispunct test to see if the
characters of punctuation character.
Isupper test to see if the
characters and uppercase letter.
And isspace test to see if the
characters of whitespace character.
There are a few other
functions in cctype that I
haven't listed in the table.
You can refer to the
c++ docs for those.
Now let's see the
conversion functions.
The two character conversion
functions are tolower and toupper.
Tolower evaluates the lower case
equivalent of the character passed in
and toupper the uppercase equivalent.
If these functions can't
perform the conversion, then a
function simply evaluate to the
character that was passed in.
As you can see, these
functions are very handy.
They're also extremely efficient.
We'll use these functions
in the next few videos when
we talk more about strings.
In the next video, we'll
learn about c style strings.
I'll see you there.